# 2 Timothy 4:13

"When you come, be sure to bring the coat I left with Carpus at Troas. Also bring my books, and especially my papers."

## History
  Written from the Roman Mamertine dungeon around 65AD.
  His prior imprisonment was a house-arrest but this was death row.
  Paul had already had a preliminary trial (v16) and expected execution (v6) as an enemy of the state.
  Timothy was in Ephesus and was prompted to come before/during Fall (v21).
  His lack of a cloak signals that his arrest was sudden.
  It probably is an actual garment but could also have been a book "case".
  The documents in question were probably scriptures, his own writings and legal documents (e.g. citizenship documents.)
  ..."especially" likely indicated the ones he wanted to finish or curate.


## Culture
  Paul cares about body (cloak), mind (scrolls/books) and mission (papers).
  Paul is still engaged in mission by trying to complete work and send or workers (v10b-12).
  ...even on death row the work continues.
  Roman prisoners were dependent on friends & family for base needs.
  The cloak (phailone) was utilitarian but also a symbol of the itinerant teacher.
  He left his belongings with Carpus in Troas because they were safe within the Church community. 
  Paul the cost and value of information- he wants a durable record of scripture.
  Only 10% were literate which meant the dissemination of the Church intellectual property is vastly important.
  Aegean shipping shut down from November-March so Paul wants Timothy to come sooner.
  Paul is leveraging his church network not just for personal needs but for doing the logistical work of creating & disseminating scripture.
  The core, catholic Church is rooted in essentials teachings and is highly network dependent.
  Hospitality and reciprocity are often, rightly, demanded of members- without them the Church succumbs.


## Literature
  The book is an epistle, this section is termed a _personalia_ (vv9-22).
  ...follows the peroration- summing-up and reinforcing the prior _pride in God_ oration.
  The descent from cosmic victory to "bring my coat" is a humanization of the apostle, which is an important expectation of Church leaders.
  Definitely a contrast between the seemingly mundanity of the stuff he needs and the prior passage "crown of righteousness" judicial metaphor.
  Paul imbues a sense of urgency in the compression his needs fulfilled specifically within the storyworld of the Church network.
  Cloak -> books -> papers presents a hierarchy: papers most important, cloak is foundational.
  "also" then "and" produce a stacatto feel, enhancing the urgent feel of the request.
  Cloak "phailoyn" is hapax...which underline it's earthliness which makes any spiritual connection very meta.
  Books "biblia" were likely commercially made volumes: Torah, Greek texts, etc.
  Papers "membranai" were probably the stuff he wrote himself, or one-off documents (other Church authors or legal documents.)
  These three serve as subtle character work: body/cloak, mind/books, legacy/papers.
  There are links here to 1Cor 16:5-6 & Phm 22 where Paul makes similar types of requests.
  These elements reinforce the authenticity of Paul's authorship (off all three) as well as evoking empathy and foreshadow the Church's propensity for and skill with texts.
  This all serves to underline the composition of the "Bread of Life" as logos investing the word in humans in everyday life.


## Language


## Theology
