# Matthew 6

## Main Point

God takes care of His own.

## Brief

How does God take care of us?

Who are "His own"?

We'll explore this by looking at little connecting words.

Story about the brit, "in England we don't own guns and we have _almost_ no gun violence."
That connecting word "almost" is very important- 
worth it give up liberty to "almost" live in peace?!
The Bible masterfully uses these connecting words.
In fact Queen Victoria said she was saved by a "but".
1 Cor 1:26-27 ~ not many noble were called... **but** God used the foolish to confound the wise.

Matthew 6 has a very important connector: "therefore" (v. 25);
"Therefore"
...do not worry about what you will eat or drink or wear.
...God knows what you need and wants to provide it for you.
...let tomorrow worry about itself.

But what is the idea that "therefore" is connecting for us?

The chapter begins with religious practices: charity, prayer, fasting, and investment.
Jesus is assuming that his disciples will be doing these things.
The issue he presents to us is the effectiveness and efficiency of these practices.
Effectiveness is doing the right things; efficiency is doing things right.
The hypocrite's reward for their religious action is their own honor;
The disciple's reward for their religious action is proximity with God.
Look at the repeated phrase "Do ### in secret and God will reward you."

Private religious, spiritual practices bring us closer to God:
we perform private acts and God responds- that is the essence of a relationship.
**Therefore** when our effort is subsumed into God's work, His will, we will have what we need provided.

## Reprise

God takes care of His own.
How does He take care?  by giving us what we need.
Who are His own?  Those who seek Him.

v.33 But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness and all these things will be given to you as well.


## Outline

I. Importance of connecting words
  A. Opening story of British co-worker
  B. Jesus was masterful w/ connecting words, as was Paul
  C. The importance of the word "almost"
  D. 1 Cor 1:26-27, Queen Victoria's "but"
II. Matthew 6 connector ~ "therefore"
  A. "Therefore" do not worry about what you need, God knows
  B. Jesus assumes we will be doing religious practices
  C. The issue is the effectiveness and efficiency of these practices
    1. Effectiveness is doing the right things
    2. Efficiency is doing things right
  D. The hypocrite appears to be doing Kingdom work because of their religious practices
    1. They are inefficient because they do them the wrong way
    2. They are ineffective because their goal is to do a religious act rather than draw near to God
  E. The disciple's religious acts have a different motive: proximity with God 
    1. They are effective because they establish the disciple nearer to God
    2. They are efficient for the Kingdom because they avoid the trappings and entanglements of public show
  F. 


## Gestures

Left ~ spiritual disciplines
Right ~ God's provision
Pushes
- Charity
- Fasting
- Prayer
- Investment
+ God's provision
Offering
- disciple's effectiveness
- disciple's efficiency
Dismissal
- hypocrite's inefficiency
- hypocrite's ineffectiveness



* v.25+ tells us not to worry about food or clothing
v. 25 ~ "Therefore" an important linkage word 
* what comes before:
  * love your enemies & spiritual disciplines
  * don't "practice righteousness in public"
    * What?
      * Charity
      * prayer
      * fasting
      * investment
      * ingestion
    * Why not?
      * Forego reward from God
      * Considerations
        * Efficiency
          * doing things right
          * right by whose standard?  Gods
          * most correctly and quickly
        * Effectiveness
          * doing the right things

Jesus is laying the foundation for the notion of true piety:
- James says "Pure...religion...is this: to look after orphans and widows...and to keep oneself unstained from the world." (CSB, ann.)
- These religious acts are not the end goal, they are a means to an end

Fear is not, in fact cannot be, forbidden. 
What is admonished is worry- that is, letting fear settle in and drive us.


I. True charity
  A. Avoid publicized piety
  B. Seek secret philanthropy
II. Honest prayer
  A. Earnest, honest, private prayer 
  B. The ordained formula for believers' prayer
    1. Who He is: heavenly and hallowed
    2. Seek God's will
    3. Seek God's provision
    4. Seek God's redemption
  C. Forgiven as you forgive
    1. Sin separates us from God but it is not what prevents us from being saved
    2. Hagioi are called to express the power of forgiveness
III. Unseen fasting
IV. Eternal investment
  A. 
V. Eyesight belies devotion
  A. The lamp shines inward
  B. The darkness is the heart of the content
  A. e.g. food & clothing
  B. The idolatry of it;  pagans crave them
  C. God's provision; the implication is that the craving should be for holiness
